---
layout: post
title: RT-PCR
date: 2019-09-01
tag: protocol
---

### Principle:
Real-time PCR, also called qPCR (quantitative PCR), is a more recent but already extremely common method of PCR that offers several advantages over conventional PCR. First, the PCR product can be detected in real time, so the need for an agarose gel to visualize the DNA post-PCR is unnecessary. Further, real-time PCR can be both quantitative and specific. Starting quantities of a sequence of interest can be determined by comparison of samples to a standard curve of known quantities of DNA. The increased specificity is achieved through the use of specific NA probes and/or a melt curve analysis that follows the PCR reaction. See Figure 4 for an example of a melt curve of a single PCR product. The presence of a single peak indicates the presence of a single amplicon at the end of the PCR reaction. If multiple peaks were detected, it would indicate that multiple PCR products were produced and the PCR assay would require further optimization and development. Comparison of mRNA expression levels between species or other circumstances, by qPCR, may be achieved through the addition of a synthetic RNA to correct for differences in RNA isolation and reverse transcription. The limitations of Real-time PCR are the increased costs, the specialized thermocyclers, and the limitation of precision in quantifying the starting quantity of target NA sequences.

### Reverse transcription PCR:
The reagents are stored at –20℃. Prior to use, thaw all reagents except the Reverse Transcriptase and the RNase inhibitor. When the reagents are thawed, keep them on ice. Keep also RNA samples on ice. Keep the Reverse Transcriptase and the RNase inhibitor in the freezer until immediately prior to use.
> 1.Prepare reaction mix by combining all the nonenzymatic components
> 2.Mix the components by pipetting up and down, vortex briefly
> 3.Add the reverse transcriptase and RNase inhibitor
> 4.Mix the components by inverting the microcentrifuge tube
> 5.Dispense appropriate volume into 200 μl-micro reaction tubes
> 6.Add RNA sample and DEPC treated water to a reaction volume of 20 μl
> 7.Place samples in Thermal Cycler
> 8.Run 10 min at 25℃ for primer incubation, 30 min at 48°C for reverse transcription, 5 min at 95℃ for reverse transcriptase inactivation
> 9.Optionally dilute the resulting cDNA with TE-buffer and store at –20℃

### Real-time PCR:
> 1.  CDNA brief centrifugation after blending, according to the cDNA: DEPC = 1:10 dilution, after blending centrifugal placed on the ice;
> 2.  Turn off the lights, according to the SYBR: 5 ul; 10um primer mix: 0.4 ul; DEPC water: 2.6 ul system configuration mix, each hole with 8ul after blending centrifugal , again according to the demand of each hole 2 ul diluted cDNA ,The total volume is 10ul;
> 3.  Cover 96 pore membrane, brief centrifugal cast his droplets to the bottom of the hole, put into the Real - time PCR machine, rolling hammer the film smooth, cover, open the program for reaction.
